apps/docs/guide/effects.md, before:

# Effects

Effects are functions that run automatically whenever their reactive dependencies change. They are the bridge between the reactive state and the outside world (DOM updates, API calls, subscriptions, etc.).

## Usage

The `effect` function takes a callback that executes immediately, and then re-executes whenever any tracked signal within it updates.

```tsx
import { state, effect } from 'flexium';

const [count, setCount] = state(0);

effect(() => {
  // Runs immediately, then again when 'count' changes
  console.log('The count is now', count());
});
```

## Cleanup

Effects can return a cleanup function. This function runs before the effect re-executes or when the component unmounts. This is useful for cleaning up event listeners, timers, or subscriptions.

```tsx
effect(() => {
  const handler = () => console.log('Window resized');
  window.addEventListener('resize', handler);

  // Cleanup function
  return () => {
    window.removeEventListener('resize', handler);
  };
});
```

## Automatic Dependency Tracking

You don't need to manually specify dependencies. Flexium automatically detects which signals are read during the execution of the effect.

```tsx
const [a, setA] = state(1);
const [b, setB] = state(2);

effect(() => {
  if (a() > 5) {
    // If a() > 5, we read b(). Now 'b' is a dependency.
    // If a() <= 5, we don't read b(). 'b' is NOT a dependency.
    console.log(b());
  }
});
```

This dynamic tracking ensures effects only run when absolutely necessary.

## Async Effects

Effects execute synchronously. If you need to perform async operations, you can make the callback async, but remember that dependencies accessed *after* an `await` might not be tracked (depending on the implementation details, but generally tracking is synchronous).

```tsx
effect(async () => {
  const id = userId(); // Tracked
  const data = await fetchUser(id);
  // Code after await runs later, dependencies read here might not track
});
```

For data fetching, prefer using `state(async () => ...)` (Resources) instead of manual effects.

Commit message:

docs: restructure sidebar to focus on main APIs 'state()' and 'effect()'

apps/docs/guide/effects.md, after:

# effect()

`effect()` runs a function automatically whenever its reactive dependencies change. It is the bridge between the reactive state and the outside world (DOM updates, API calls, subscriptions, etc.).

## Usage

The `effect` function takes a callback that executes immediately, and then re-executes whenever any tracked signal within it updates.

```tsx
import { state, effect } from 'flexium';

const [count, setCount] = state(0);

effect(() => {
  // Runs immediately, then again when 'count' changes
  console.log('The count is now', count());
});
```

## Cleanup

Effects can return a cleanup function. This function runs before the effect re-executes or when the component unmounts. This is useful for cleaning up event listeners, timers, or subscriptions.

```tsx
effect(() => {
  const handler = () => console.log('Window resized');
  window.addEventListener('resize', handler);

  // Cleanup function
  return () => {
    window.removeEventListener('resize', handler);
  };
});
```

## Automatic Dependency Tracking

You don't need to manually specify dependencies. Flexium automatically detects which signals are read during the execution of the effect.

```tsx
const [a, setA] = state(1);
const [b, setB] = state(2);

effect(() => {
  if (a() > 5) {
    // If a() > 5, we read b(). Now 'b' is a dependency.
    // If a() <= 5, we don't read b(). 'b' is NOT a dependency.
    console.log(b());
  }
});
```

This dynamic tracking ensures effects only run when absolutely necessary.

## Async Effects

Effects execute synchronously. If you need to perform async operations, you can make the callback async, but remember that dependencies accessed *after* an `await` might not be tracked (depending on the implementation details, but generally tracking is synchronous).

```tsx
effect(async () => {
  const id = userId(); // Tracked
  const data = await fetchUser(id);
  // Code after await runs later, dependencies read here might not track
});
```

For data fetching, prefer using `state(async () => ...)` (Resources) instead of manual effects.
